today I want to share a strategy that I
call the morning ritual and it's
something I've used the help gold from
to 10 22 27 and it's designed to help
improve digestion improve absorption and
it also helps combat the acidity in your
body now this is something I do within
five minutes of waking up every single
morning it's that critical anybody can
do this as well the first thing to
understand about digestion and
absorption is that your cells don't
experience the same thing that your
mouth experiences just because you put
food in your mouth doesn't mean and
that's it actually passes through your
digestive tract that gets into your
stomach that it gets into your blood
stream and that it ultimately gets where
we want it to your muscle cells so we
have to look at foods to help promote
that and the number one thing that does
that is fiber the analogy I can give you
guys is on this isn't totally accurate
but if you look at a long tube a lot of
guys bodybuilders don't have problems
getting food into the tube but they have
problems getting food out of the tube so
we want an equal flow of food going in
and going out at the same rate now as
you can imagine if you're not excreting
your food you're going to create a
backup and that's going to prevent
digestion and absorption and that means
you're not going to get the food
actually into your muscle cells so one
strategy I use every morning upon waking
up is I do a juice drink I call it the
morning ritual and as you can see I pick
us an assortment of vegetables it really
doesn't matter which ones you use I've
got some celery beets asparagus peppers
carrots and spinach hear things that
help prevent water retention they're
high in vitamins minerals fiber iron
loads of mega minerals and what I'm
going to do is I'm going to put them in
my juicer this is here by the way is the
mercedes-benz of juicers this thing's
like two horsepower it's Vitamix and if
you can invest in one go for it the nice
thing about this is that we're not going
to lose any of the nutrient value
everything stays inside we're going to
blend it all and drink it now there's
another really important purpose to all
of this that i haven't mentioned that is
neutralizing the acidity in your body
what a lot of people don't know
is that you are what you eat and if
you're eating a lot of protein and
carbohydrates which are going to help
promote muscle growth and are good
you're going to create a lot of acidity
in your body and as you know that can
lead to cancers diseases it can help it
can lead to leaching minerals out of
your body and it can also result in
ruining your physique and muscle loss so
we don't want that so they're easy
solution is to bring in the silent
Heroes which i like to call vegetables
and that's going to help neutralize the
acidity because these are based foods
and based foods help prevent they'd help
maintain that acid-base balance in our
body or bodies always in a state of flux
so um those are the two main purposes
that that will serve now let's get to
I'll show you what I do it's really
quite simple again it literally takes
minutes I get a bit of water to start
off with that's my base and again don't
worry about the vegetables you use one
cool thing about juicing too is that you
never waste your vegetables anymore now
I do this every day I always have fresh
vegetables in store but um you know some
people they might just at the end of the
week start noticing hey shoo I've got a
bag of celery that's about to go bad and
bear your carrots that are almost
expired I better blend that up so I
don't waste it so that's a nice thing
about juicing too now here's what we're
going to do we're going to turn this on
and watch what happens
whoops let's get that on there
now most juicers don't have the power to
do that but if you can get a Vitamix
again it's not the cheapest thing on the
market it is probably one of the best
investments you can make and it'll give
you no reason not to get your six to 15
servings of vegetables in your day as
you can see I got six servings of
vegetables right there and I am going to
pour that now again you can dilute it to
your liking you can add some ice cubes
if you want you can even add some stevia
to it but to be honest as you saw that
with straight vegetables with water
nothing else this is what I drink five
minutes with and waking up every single
morning sometimes it's like you're on
fear factor you never know what you're
going to mix up but for the most part
it's actually always quite surprisingly
good so um that's it that's the strategy
now what I do is I alkalis my body that
takes about 5 to 20 minutes and after I
drink this I'll start preparing my
breakfast so I'm going to have my first
meal the day within about 20 minutes of
having this and that is my morning
ritual